eclipse/lua bindings
--------------------

Introduction
------------

	Lua is a tiny language meant to be embedded in larger
	projects, it is not meant to be a full-fledged programming
	language for the development of large applications. It is
	intended to be used everywhere the need for a simple yet
	powerful programming language comes out.

	Lua has very simple and efficient constructs which allow an
	easy programming of high-level algorithms. This is especially
	useful to add a scripting layer to an existing piece of
	software. This is exactly what it is used for in eclipse: to
	provide access to the C functions in eclipse through a simple
	language that can be used by non-programmers.


What is brings
--------------

	Most high-level routines in the eclipse C library are
	interfaced to function or variables names in the Lua
	namespace. This gives access to all users to the library
	functionalities without having to dive into C programming.

	Even then, this programming layer is not meant for the
	development of large pieces of software. It should be
	understood that a scripting language is not meant to develop
	large projects, but merely controlling what happens at the
	highest level. The Lua/eclipse binding offers a way of
	programming your own high-level functionalities by linking
	together various low-level function calls.


Lua references
--------------

	The main source of Lua information is:
	http://www.lua.org


How to build
------------

	Install the eclipse-lua package in your eclipse tree, and
	type 'configure ; make' as usual to build everything. You
	should now have an executable called 'eclipse' in
	eclipse/bin.


How to use it
-------------

	The main engine is called simply 'eclipse', it is a Unix
	program containing all the knowledge about the eclipse
	library and the Lua language.

	The engine is used by passing the name of a script or a
	command to execute, and optionally command-line arguments.
	The engine also offers a very limited interactive mode meant
	for debugging. See the help message by typing:
	% eclipse --help

	See the programming manual and the source directories for
	example. The Lua web site contains various documents about
	the Lua language which you might want to read.


N. Devillard
Fri Mar 30 14:46:41 CEST 2001
